Childhood to Adolescence
Arvon grew up in a poor household with seven older siblings, all of them put to work blacksmithing for their father since they could hold a hammer. Money was always tight, and Arvin often went to bed hungry, muscles worn and weak, after a long day of carrying metal tools and hammering anvils. Although their father's work was respected and sold his tools well under market value to his neighbors, their family was looked down upon for race mixing: Arvon's mother was an orc, an outcast from a tribe from the nearby woods, who his father had taken in and married many, many years ago, and the mostly-human occupants of their village didn't look upon race-mixing kindly. His mother was who he learned Orcish from, though he never learned to read or write it.
	As Arvon grew older, he began taking on more and more responsibilities at his father's forge as his siblings moved away, some marrying commoners from distant towns and moving in with them, and others trying to use their skills to land jobs in the city. Their lives in their hometown, Dyflin, seemed hopeless, but Arvon had to stay or his father's business would go belly up. Soon enough, it was just him, when his last sister joined a traveling mercenary company and left.
	To deal with the realization that his life was going nowhere, Arvon sought out the local church, begging the pastor to let him in and learn of their religion. After multiple days of trying, he finally let him sit in on the congregation, as long as he promised to be silent the entire time and sit in the back. Gladly, Arvon accepted, and soon he was able to recite most of their teachings by heart, despite his illiteracy and difficulty learning in other contexts. By the time he was 14, the pastor noticed him mouthing the words to his sermons and asked to see him privately. This led to him receiving private teachings (in secret from the rest of the town), which included reading and writing lessons, letting Arvon understand basic written common sentences. It also cemented his faith in the town religion and gave him a very principled understanding of morality and justice.
Folk Hero & Weapon Expertise Backstory
	Two years later, on Arvon's 16th birthday, a raiding party of rogue orcs broke into the town, pillaging and burning and driving people away. This had happened a few times before in the previous decade, but never with these numbers, and it was far too much for the local militia to handle. All the townspeople could do was hide, let them take what they wanted, and pray, which is exactly what Arvon and his parents did in their shop. His father was sure that the invaders would burst in any minute and take them for all they had, or, worse yet, burn down their store with them inside it. Even worse, his mother begged the orcs to ransac their business and loot their weapons, for if they didn't, she was sure she would be strung up and executed for colluding with them. 
	Unable to help himself, Arvon snuck a peak out their front window to view the chaos, and in horror, he saw the church being raided and destroyed while flames were lit to burn it to the ground. Arvon tensed up, but he didn't feel anger. Instead, a strong, divine sense of justice surged through him, something he had heard before in his congregation but never felt himself until now. And, before his mother or father could stop him, he took up the largest hammer he could find in the smithy and barged outside to face the horde.
	There must have been at least sixty orcs total invading the village, but Arvon didn't care, and with a single swing of the mighty hammer, crushed the nearest raider's skull, who was trying to tear down the door to the local butcher with a fierce battle axe. Blood splattered Arvon's young face, but he didn't hesitate in bringing the weapon down again on his enemy, this time cracking open his knees to make sure he wouldn't get back up. Finally, he turned his attention to the several orcs who had noticed the attack.
	Arvon stood his ground, closed his eyes and steadied his shaking arms, clearing his mind and letting in his god, just like he had been taught in church. Then, as he opened them back up, he took a long, threatening step forward to the four orcs surrounding him. The first one ran in immediately, clutching a short knife in one hand and a sack of gold in the other. Swiftly, Arvon dodged the attack, learning great dexterity from his job at the forge, and brought the hammer down on his attacker's arm, crushing the bone and sending him to the ground. The next one came at his behind, but Arvon swung around just in time to catch him in the jaw, sending his long teeth into the roof of his mouth. Next, Arvon set his sights on the largest there, standing nearly seven feet tall, and this time, it was he who approached them. He narrowly received a slash to the stomach from the looted sword the brute was using, but he took him down too with a swing to the ribs.
	By this point, many cowering townsfolk were watching the conflict in awe, seeing the 17 year old half-orc, youngest of his shunned family, take on four fully-grown orcs and somehow come out on top. It was unbelievable, especially to his mother and father, who watched in bewilderment and terror as their son engaged the bandits. Eventually, Arvon made his way through the fourth orc, the hardest fought yet, where he received a brutal blow to his leg with a mace, and as tired and hurt as he was, continued the fight for righteousness, fully ready to give himself up to defend his town. More importantly, however, he wanted to defend his church, or at least die trying.
	When Arvon limped over there, he found the orcs still siphoning treasure from it, hoarding it in carts they'd looted from the town and guarding it amongst the bodies of militiamen and churchgoers alike. They were roaring and shouting with confidence, at least until Arvon crept up behind one of the orcs loading gold onto a cart and crushed the back of his head with the bloody hammer. The colossal orc crumpled to the ground, dead instantly. That was the first life Arvon ever took, and it finally made him take a step back, seeing the lifeless corpse of his making oozing blood all over the streets.
	Furious, an adjacent orc attacked him, narrowly missing with a dull, filthy sickle that he swung with concerning speed. Desperately, Arvon was backed into a corner, looking for an opportunity to go in with his hammer but finding none. Finally, in a last, desperate maneuver, he tossed the weapon at his attacker, stopping him for a second, and took up the first sharp object he could find in the cart of stolen goods: a javelin, no doubt belonging to the town guard. He dodged another attack from the orc, nearly tripping himself over in doing so, and stabbed with the javelin, just barely missing. It went like this for quite a while, attracting the attention of several more orcs who began making their way over, as well as the attention of surrounding townsfolk, who watched in grim anticipation. Finally, Arvon landed a lucky blow, striking the orc deep in his belly and burying the javelin in his liver. He collapsed forward, drenching Arvon from head to toe in blood.
	Now empty-handed, Arvon watched as six or seven heavily-armed orcs surrounded him now, taking cautious steps towards him. He knew he couldn't take them all at once (uwu) even if he was armed, but without his hammer, there was no chance he'd even wound one of them. But still, he channeled the teachings from his church, put his mind at rest, and readied himself for battle. He would die protecting his community, his church, and his family.
	Suddenly, out of nowhere, a spear stuck itself in the closest orc's cranium, sending him to the ground instantly, and then another one landed hard in the dust, narrowly missing another orc's side. Then, all at once, a group of surviving militiamen charged, maybe 8 or 9 of them, carrying a bizarre assortment of weapons that could only have come from one place: Arvon's father's forge. Arvon smiled at this but saw in despair that at least twenty more orcs were making their way over, centralizing themselves around the small stand the town was making. Chaos ensued as the militia engaged the raiders, taking out the small squad of orcs but suffering brutal injuries. With the orcs' size and strength, it was hard to overcome them. Still, encouraged by Arvon's bravery, they stood their ground, turning their attention to the ever-growing band of orcs preparing to charge and cut them down. Quietly, Arvon limped off to retrieve his hammer before rejoining the group.
	Once Arvon returned, he was met with a shocking sight that stopped him in his tracks: their number against the orcs had more than quadrupled. In fact, they now outnumbered them by a significant majority. Townsfolk, old and young, who Arvon knew well from around town, were standing shoulder to shoulder with anything they could point at an invader: spears, pitchforks, torches, sharp knives, pots and pans, chairs, anything at all, and by the second, more were marching out of their houses and joining them. Arvon scanned the group quickly and even found his own parents among them, clutching weapons from his forge and even handing out more to other people, from what it looked like. It was unreal.
	The orcs still surrounding the church growled. They had grown to about thirty or forty now, but thankfully that seemed to be the extent of it. Any others that had come had either been slain in battle or left town already with some of the loot. In whatever case, the odds were beginning to tilt back in the village's favor, and in that moment, Arvon could only attribute gracious, divine intervention, giving him the courage to rally his town together for a final stand.
	The fight, if it broke out, would have been devastating and bloody for both sides, but luckily, the fuming orcs gave up their position, grabbing everything they could carry and fleeing back outside the town limits into the woods from where they came from, abandoning the carts filled with gold and supplies. The next five minutes or so were filled with nothing but cheering, and at the center of it was Arvon, the savior of the village.
Adulthood to Present
	Unsurprisingly, Arvon became a local legend and the pride of the town, leading the defense against the largest orc attack in recent memory. Almost everyone forgot his racial background and celebrated him as one of them, and a few even apologized outright for recognizing him before. What's more, his father's forge, although popular before, surged in fame. Distant travelers stopped by to browse his wares and paid double or even triple the regular asking price. The financial success was so good that one day, after Arvon had turned seventeen, his father assured him that he and his wife could handle things here on his own, and he could set out and be his own man like his brothers and sisters had done before him. It was the happiest Arvon had been in his life.
	Along with an inflated ego, Arvon walked away from his old life with a firm understanding of religious history and text and a concrete grasp on his divine duties and morals. He knew exactly what he wanted to do now: he would become a Paladin in the city of Nali, which he had heard of from a traveler out west. He had reservations about how quickly they would welcome a half-orc into their order, but more importantly, he was concerned that they'd teach a different religious text and worship a different god. Arvon, after all, had met many travelers via his father's business, and all but a few followed religious leaders and faiths completely alien to Arvon. Still, he decided it was what he wanted to do, and he would work out the finer details when he got there.
	After getting a ride to Nali from a traveler headed back there herself, he walked right up to the temple and confidently went to apply to join. To his excitement, he was accepted as an apprentice after only a few hours of vetting and testing, but to his sadness, they did not follow his religion. In fact, it wasn't one he'd even heard about when asking the travelers, even the ones who had been to Nali. However, as he got more into its fundamentals, he realized that it wasn't all that different from what he'd been taught back home. Sure, the gods, worshiping styles, and religious texts were all completely different, but the core tenets were the same, and after weeks more of study, Arvon came to believe that these paladins and his church were both worshiping the same beings, just under different names and different effects. Perhaps they weren't even worshiping beings at all but simply nature itself and the divine rule of justice itself. Regardless, the teachings didn't shape Arvon's moral character in the slightest. To him, right and wrong were clear as day and night, and he was determined to show everybody that this was the case. But more than that, he dedicated himself to purging the world around him of injustice and evil, just like he had done to those orcs when they invaded his home.
	Over the next two years, Arvon practiced and studied hard, excelling in his classes, letting  his strength, wisdom, and charm make up for his relative dullness. On the surface, he was a great student with a long resume of law enforcement and battle experience who knew right from wrong like he knew earth from water, and for the most part this was how he felt. But occasionally, he saw visions of those he had slain in combat, and as evil and deserving of judgment as they were, he couldn't help but feel intense guilt on those occasions where he had to put someone to death. Sometimes, he would pray for hours on his bedroom floor silently, begging the spirits of the past to leave him be. Most of the time it worked, but sometimes he would be tormented the entire night, leaving him sleepless and driven to the edge. He just hadn't quite slipped over it... yet.
